# ML-based-crop-consultant
This is machine learning and deep learning based website which recommends the best crop to grow, fertilizers to use and the diseases caught by your crops.


# Approach
Regardless of the enormous technological advancements and industrialization, approximately 70 percent  of  the  Indian  population  is  connected  with  agriculture  and  its  related  activities.  It contributes  about  15.78%  to  the  Indian  economy.  One  of  the  most  important  agricultural processes that is adapted for better growth of the plants is irrigation. Due to changing climate and degraded quality of soil, farmers are getting less production in farms. Due to these problems, Farmers face serious long-term consequences. “Prevention is better than cure”. The best way to overcome such trails is to solve the problem before it actually happens. For that We have proposed the concept of SMART FARMING through our Project which detects upcoming issues so that farmers can take immediate actions and stop it. Our proposed project alerts farmers regarding such upcoming problems. Currently, cultivation consumes around 70 percent of the freshwater. This percentage should be decreased by performing efficient water management systems. [11] Our project predicts how much water reserve will be required by farmers for their crop during no irrigation season in order to reduce water scarcity. Water reservation problem will be solved. Those Farmers who live in areas where they have to buy tankers of water, precise water requirement prediction will save their money. [10] Our Project answers whether the soil is too much acidic or alkaline which helps farmers to eliminate the risk of losing yields. Farmers will be aware of their soil nature due to which they will have better prediction about which crop has to be grown. Through this, they will have an Increase in Production, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Our Project analyses measurements taken on ground level which introduce the concept of Accurate Farming and proper field evaluation that can answer farmers how to handle microbiological processes of soil microorganisms and how to stop the growth of mold and bacteria that cause plants to die and crops to fail. [8] Our animal detection system and Radar System will prevent animals or flying beings to enter into crops. Our project Alerts Farmers when there is high soil temperature so that farmers can take immediate steps such as water sprinkling, etc to prevent roots from being damaged. Weather Forecasting alert though SMS helps farmers to take important decisions like harvesting, sowing, etc. precisely. Our project is also monitoring farms through unique Geo-mapping and tagging program known as Google Earth. The key to Google Earth is that it presents a “base layer” of an aerial photographic image that is geo-located. There are layers of information available for the farm, including soil map3mineral deposits and other information about any location. You can know your problem areas on the farm with map layers that you can add to Google Earth.  This can be valuable information for managing the whole farm.
Our project provides all solutions to daily problems of Indian farmers. Further Overall Operation cost will be reduced and production quality and quantity will be increased and there will be reduced environmental footprint. Our country is dependent on the farmers as they provide us one of the most essential needs to survive i.e., food. We hope, through our small contribution we can put a smile on the face of millions of farmers and improve our Country's Agricultural economy.


